# Documentation
Contents:
- [Detailed tech stack](#detailed-tech-stack)
- [Brief functionalities](#brief-functionalities)
- [API endpoints](#api-endpoints)

## Detailed tech stack
- Python with Flask.
- MongoDB for the main user data.
- Redis for in-memory data on server-side sessions and rate limiting. Considering to use it for message queue too in the future.
- Pydantic for validating request body, data from DB, and response.
- Bandit SAST, used in both local development and GitHub Actions CI/CD
- CodeQL SAST in GitHub Actions CI/CD

## Brief functionalities
NOTE: Currently, the front end is being remade / refactored. This is the old front end.

### Dashboard page
- View how much spent in total, how much earned in total, and remaining balance.
- More features to add in the future

### Transactions page
- View all financial records input by the user
- Update or delete individual records
- Delete all records

### Create transaction page
- Create a new record

There will be a landing page to authenticate user (Google OAuth or username + password, password reset) in the new version. Then the pages above will be protected and could change in features.


## API endpoints

API host: <u>https://\<domain>/api</u>

Main response body:
```json
{
    "success": boolean,
    "message": string,
    "messageCode": string to encode specific error or success case,
    "data": any + may be omitted,
    "timestamp": string as ISO 8601 UTC datetime 
}
```

***

### Auth / user endpoints

#### POST /googleLogin
<u>Endpoint</u>: [API host]/googleLogin

<u>Description</u>: Take Google OAuth code from front end, validate, generate a server-side session and CSRF token, and return the user profile from Google.

<u>Request body</u>
| Name | Data type | Optional | Note
| ---- | --------- | -------- | ----
| code | | required | Code from Google OAuth, authorization code flow

<u>Response HTTP status code</u>
| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| 200 | OK |
| 400 | Bad request |
| 500 | Internal error |

<u>Response body</u>
| Name | Data type | Note |
| ---- | --------- | ---- |
| userID | string | |
| userEmail | string | |
| userName | string | |
| signUpChoice | literal string 'GOOGLE' | |

<u>Response header</u>
| Name | Note |
| ---- | ---- |
| X-CSRF-Token| CSRF token generated by server |

***

#### GET /getCredentials
<u>Endpoint</u>: [API host]/getCredentials

<u>Description</u>: Get user profile

<u>Response HTTP status code</u>
| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| 200 | OK |
| 201 | Created |
| 400 | Bad request |
| 500 | Internal error |

<u>Response body</u>

One of the three
- **newPreLogin**: user has no session yet, one pre-login session is created for them. No body data.

- **existingPreLogin**: user has a pre-login session. No body data.

- **postLogin**: user is authenticated and already has a post-login session, which is returned in this body:

| Name | Data type | Note |
| ---- | --------- | ---- |
| userID | string | |
| userEmail | string | |
| userName | string | |
| signUpChoice | 'GOOGLE' or 'NORMAL' | |

<u>Response header</u>
| Name | Note |
| ---- | ---- |
| X-CSRF-Token| CSRF token generated by server |

***

#### POST /signIn
